.TH deepsea 7
.SH NAME
DeepSea stage 4 \- a deeper insight
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DeepSea Stage 4 (Services)
is a Salt orchestration that deploys the non-core services of ceph.
.RE
.PD
.SH Preface
.PP
After deploying the core services you are presented with a running ceph cluster. From here on you might 
want to install and configure services like rgw, mds, nfs-ganesha, iscsi or openattic.

.B Validation:
.RS
DeepSea performs a set of system validation tests before running the ramainder of the stage.


* openattic
  Checks for incompatible issues for openaATTIC.

.RE

.B Iscsi:
.RS
Sets up Iscsi if configured
.RE

.B Ceph Filesystem:
.RS
Sets up Cephfs if configured
.RE

.B Rados Gateway:
.RS
Sets up RGW if configured
.RE

.B NFS-Ganesha:
.RS
Sets up NFS-G if configured
.RE

.B openATTIC:
.RS
Sets up oA if configured
.RE

.RE
.SS Restart
As we installed updates on the cluster, the services might be pointing to old and/or deleted files still. In order to 
apply the correct versions we might need to perform a restart for those services.
DeepSea initiates the 'restart orchestration'. This operation performs checks to determine whether a service restrart is 
required or not. There are two types of criteria which can trigger a restart.

.B Deleted Files
and
.B a configuration change

The process of restarting services also happens in a non-disruptive manner by only restarting 
.B one service at a time
followed by checking if it's up again and only then continue. Here again, the orchestration exits if an error 
is detected to prevent harm. The restart happens automatically and will not impact your ability to read/write 
data to the cluster via any interface. After stage.3 only 
.B non-core services (igw, cephfs, rgw, nfs-ganesha, openattic)
are being restarted.

.SH Example
deepsea salt-run state.orch ceph.stage.4
.PP
This command can also be used with the
.B DeepSea cli
to give feedback during the process from the Salt event bus.  Salt orchestrations are unnervingly silent during 
execution and only report when complete.
.PP
deepsea stage run ceph.stage.4

.SH AUTHOR
Joshua Schmid <jschmid@suse.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR deepsea (1),
.BR deepsea (7),
.BR deepsea-commands (7),
.BR deepsea-stage-0 (7),
.BR deepsea-stage-1 (7),
.BR deepsea-stage-2 (7),
.BR deepsea-stage-3 (7),
.BR deepsea-stage-5 (7),
.BR deepsea-customization (7),
.BR deepsea-mines (7)
