.TH deepsea 7
.SH NAME
deepsea stage 1 \- a deeper insight
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DeepSea Stage 1 (Discovery)
is a Salt orchestration that is there to discover disks and network interfaces and tries to depict them in a file hirarchy.
.RE
.PD
.SH Preface
.PP
Deepsea tries to detect disks that can be converted to OSDs. In order to use those disks they have to look like spare disks (no partitions).
We don't use disks that have partitions on them to avoid overwriting data.
.B Validation:
.RS
Deepsea performs a set of system validation tests before running the ramainder of the stage.

* salt-api
  Is the salt-api running

* Deepsea minion
  See deepsea-minions (7)

* master minion
  Check for the presence of a master minion

* ceph version
  Validate if a ceph version could be found for installation
.RE

.B Populate proposals
.RS
Detect network interfaces and create the directory hierarchy you find under
.B /srv/pillar/ceph/proposals/
.RE

.B Propose cluster layout for OSDs
.RS
Deepsea creates a proposal based on your HDD-SSD-NVME distrubtion across the clsuter. Please see the help page of this runner:

salt-run proposal.help
.RE



.SH Example
deepsea salt-run state.orch ceph.stage.1
.PP
This command can also be used with the
.B deepsea cli
to give feedback during the process from the Salt event bus.  Salt orchestrations are unnervingly silent during execution and only report when complete.
.PP
deepsea stage run ceph.stage.1

.SH AUTHOR
Joshua Schmid <jschmid@suse.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR deepsea (1),
.BR deepsea (7),
.BR deepsea-commands (7),
.BR deepsea-stage-0 (7),
.BR deepsea-stage-2 (7),
.BR deepsea-stage-3 (7),
.BR deepsea-stage-4 (7),
.BR deepsea-stage-5 (7),
.BR deepsea-customization (7),
.BR deepsea-mines (7)
