.TH deepsea 7
.SH NAME
deepsea stage 3 \- a deeper insight
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DeepSea Stage 3 (Deploy)
is a Salt orchestration that deploys the core services of ceph
.RE
.PD
.SH Preface
.PP
After configuration and setup stages have been completed successfully we are ready to actually deploy and install ceph.

.B Validation:
.RS
Deepsea performs a set of system validation tests before running the ramainder of the stage.

* DEV_ENV
  This option tells you if a Developer Environment is expected. Setting this option bypasses some validations that would lead to insufficient replication or data insafety.
  Do not set this option in production.

.B Disabled validations:
  * monitors
  * storage
  * mgrs

* firewall 
  Verify if the neccessary ports for ceph are open in the firewall.

* apparmor 
  Check if apparmor is disabled.

* fsid
  Check if a valid fsid is set.

* public_network
  Is a public network found and defined?

* public_interface 
  Is a public interface found and defined?

* cluster_network
  Is a cluster network found and defined?

* cluster_interface
  Is a cluster interface found and defined?

* monitors
  Ceph recommends the monitor count to be an odd number >=3.
  
* mgrs
  Ceph recommends a manager node alongside a monitor.

* storage
  Ceph recommends >= four OSD nodes to bear with the default replica rate of 3.

* ganesha
  Ganesha depends on a rgw or mds role to be set.

* master_role
  Verify if a master is set in the pillar.

* time_server
  Ceph recommends some form of a time server. Verify it's configuration files

* fqdn
  Verify that the fqdn matches the minion id.

.RE

.B Setup time server:
.RS
Sets up the configured time server.
.RE

.B Install ceph related packages
.RS
Install ceph packages on all nodes
.RE

.B Generate and distribute the ceph.conf
.RS
The ceph.conf is generated from several files under 
.B /srv/salt/ceph/configuration/files/ceph.conf.d
please consult the README under this directory for more information.
.RE

.B Check for configuration changes
.RS
Due to this design we can determine what service experienced a configration change and needs a restart. Please note that when you change something in the above mentioned ceph.conf.d/ directory, stage.3 has to be run in order to apply the changes and distribute the ceph.conf back to the nodes.
.RE

.B Admin role
.RS
Handle admin role. Push keyring to configured node.
.RE

.B Mgr role
.RS
Handle mgr role. Push keyring to configured node and start the service.
.RE

.B Mon role
.RS
Handle Mon role. Push keyring to configured node create monfs and start the service.
.RE

.B OSD role
.RS
Handle OSD role. Push keyring to configured node and run the osd.deploy module
.RE

.B OSD grains
.RS
To track internally which WAL/DB partition belongs to which disks without the disk being mounted we store the information about this in a 'grain'. A grain is a salt concept which you can read about here: https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/topics/grains/
.RE

.B Set Sysctl values
.RS
We observed that issues can be avoided when setting the fs.aio-max-nr value to 1073741824
.RE

.B Ceph and RBD exporter for prometheus
.RS
Setup RBD and ceph exporter
.RE

.RE
.SS Restart
As we installed updates on the cluster, the services might be pointing to old and/or deleted files still. In order to apply the correct versions we might need to perform a restart for those services.
Deepsea initiates the 'restart orchestration'. This operation performs checks to determine whether a service restrart is required or not. There are two types of criteria which can trigger a restart.

.B Deleted Files
and
.B a configuration change

The process of restarting services also happens in a non-disruptive manner by only restarting 
.B one service at a time
followed by checking if it's up again and only then continue. Here again, the orchestration exits if an error is detected to prevent harm.
The restart happens automatically and will not impact your ability to read/write data to the cluster via any interface.
After stage.3 only 
.B core services (osd,mon,mgr)
are being restarted.


.SH Example
deepsea salt-run state.orch ceph.stage.3
.PP
This command can also be used with the
.B deepsea cli
to give feedback during the process from the Salt event bus.  Salt orchestrations are unnervingly silent during execution and only report when complete.
.PP
deepsea stage run ceph.stage.3

.SH AUTHOR
Joshua Schmid <jschmid@suse.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR deepsea (1),
.BR deepsea (7),
.BR deepsea-commands (7),
.BR deepsea-stage-0 (7),
.BR deepsea-stage-1 (7),
.BR deepsea-stage-2 (7),
.BR deepsea-stage-4 (7),
.BR deepsea-stage-5 (7),
.BR deepsea-customization (7),
.BR deepsea-mines (7)
